README.md, before:

# Race-Keeper RKD Telemetry Extractor

**Extract GPS, accelerometer, and gyroscope data from Race-Keeper `.rkd` telemetry files.**

Race-Keeper "Instant Video" systems (by Trivinci/IENSO Inc.) record synchronized video and telemetry at professional track days across Europe. The telemetry is stored in proprietary `.rkd` binary files, readable only with the included Windows-only player.

This project provides:
- A **cross-platform Python parser** for `.rkd` files (no dependencies)
- Export to **[Telemetry Overlay](https://goprotelemetryextractor.com/) Custom CSV** (30 Hz)
- Export to **GPX 1.1** for track visualization
- The **first public documentation** of the RKD binary format

## Quick Start

```bash
# Parse a single file — exports CSV + GPX
python3 rkd_parser.py outing.rkd

# Print session info only (no export)
python3 rkd_parser.py outing.rkd --info

# Process all .rkd files on a USB stick
python3 rkd_parser.py --all-in /Volumes/RACEKEEPER/

# Export CSV only to a specific directory
python3 rkd_parser.py outing.rkd --no-gpx --output-dir ./exports/
```

**Requirements:** Python 3.9+ (no pip dependencies — stdlib only)

## What You Get

### Telemetry Overlay CSV (30 Hz)
A CSV file ready to load into [Telemetry Overlay](https://goprotelemetryextractor.com/) with:

| Channel | Rate | Source |
|---------|------|--------|
| GPS position (lat/lon) | 30 Hz (interpolated) | GPS receiver |
| Speed (m/s + km/h) | 30 Hz (interpolated) | GPS receiver |
| Altitude (m) | 30 Hz (interpolated) | GPS receiver |
| Heading (deg) | 30 Hz (interpolated) | GPS receiver |
| Vertical speed (ft/min) | 30 Hz (interpolated) | GPS receiver |
| Satellites, GPS fix | 5 Hz | GPS receiver |
| Accelerometer X/Y/Z (m/s²) | 30 Hz | IMU |
| Gyroscope X/Y/Z (deg/s) | 30 Hz | IMU |
| Pitch angle (deg) | 30 Hz | Computed from accelerometer |
| Bank/roll angle (deg) | 30 Hz | Computed from accelerometer |
| Turn rate (deg/s) | 30 Hz | Gyroscope Z axis |
| G-force longitudinal/lateral/total | 30 Hz | Computed from IMU |
| Braking indicator | 30 Hz | Computed from IMU |
| Cumulative distance (km) | 30 Hz | Computed from GPS |

The `utc (ms)` timestamp column enables **automatic sync** with video files in Telemetry Overlay.

### GPX Track File
A standard GPX 1.1 file at native GPS rate (~5 Hz) for:
- Viewing in Google Earth, GPXSee, Strava, etc.
- Verifying the track layout
- Sharing routes

### Session Summary

```
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
  RKD Session: outing.rkd
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
  File size:      474,563 bytes
  Car ID:         11098

  GPS data:
    Fixes:        1,457
    Duration:     289s (4.8 min)
    Max speed:    156.5 km/h (97.3 mph)
    Distance:     5.03 km (3.12 mi)
    Alt range:    249.9 – 263.7 m
    Satellites:   17 – 19

  IMU data:
    Frames:       8,681
    Accel Z (mean): 9.81 m/s² (expect ~9.81)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
```

## RKD Format Overview

The RKD binary format uses a **PNG-style magic signature** (`\x89RKD\r\n\x1a\n`) followed by a sequential stream of typed records with 10-byte headers:

| Record Type | Data | Rate |
|-------------|------|------|
| HEADER (1) | Config key-value pairs | Once |
| GPS (2) | Position, speed, altitude, heading | 5 Hz |
| ACCEL (7) | 3-axis accelerometer (milli-g) | 30 Hz |
| GYRO (12) | 3-axis gyroscope | 30 Hz |
| PERIODIC (6) | System metrics | ~1 Hz |
| TERMINATOR (0x8001) | Session end marker | Once |

See **[RKD_FORMAT_SPEC.md](RKD_FORMAT_SPEC.md)** for the complete binary format specification.

## Sample Data

The `samples/` directory contains:
- `sample_mettet.rkd` — A truncated RKD file (~50 GPS fixes from Circuit de Mettet)
- `sample_output.csv` — Example Telemetry Overlay CSV export
- `sample_output.gpx` — Example GPX track file

## Project Structure

```
├── rkd_parser.py         # Main parser tool (standalone, no deps)
├── RKD_FORMAT_SPEC.md    # Formal binary format specification
├── RESEARCH_NOTES.md     # Reverse-engineering narrative
├── SESSION_LOG.md        # Claude Code interaction log
├── LICENSE               # MIT license
└── samples/
    ├── README.md         # Sample data documentation
    ├── sample_mettet.rkd # Truncated RKD sample
    ├── sample_output.csv # Example CSV export
    └── sample_output.gpx # Example GPX export
```

## Background

This project was born out of frustration: a macOS user with Race-Keeper track day recordings and no way to use the telemetry data. The proprietary `.rkd` format had no public documentation, and the official tools only run on Windows.

The format was reverse-engineered in a single day using **Claude Code** as a collaborative analysis partner. The full narrative of the reverse-engineering process is documented in [RESEARCH_NOTES.md](RESEARCH_NOTES.md), and the Claude Code session transcripts are referenced in [SESSION_LOG.md](SESSION_LOG.md).

## For Telemetry Overlay Users

If you're here because you want to use Race-Keeper data with [Telemetry Overlay](https://goprotelemetryextractor.com/):

1. Copy your `outing.rkd` file from the USB stick
2. Run: `python3 rkd_parser.py outing.rkd`
3. Load the generated `.csv` into Telemetry Overlay as a "Custom CSV" data source
4. The UTC timestamps will auto-sync with your video

## For Developers

The format specification in [RKD_FORMAT_SPEC.md](RKD_FORMAT_SPEC.md) is designed to be implementor-friendly, with:
- Exact byte offsets and struct formats
- Unit conversion formulas with examples
- Validation checksums for testing
- Example hex dumps

The parser code (`rkd_parser.py`) serves as a reference implementation — it's deliberately written to be readable with extensive inline comments explaining each binary format detail.

## Contributing

Found a Race-Keeper system with different record types or data structures? Contributions welcome:
- Open an issue with a hex dump of the first 256 bytes
- If possible, share a sample `.rkd` file (or the record type summary from `--info`)

## Credits

- **Reverse engineering & implementation:** Sam
- **AI-assisted analysis:** [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/claude-code) (Anthropic)
- **Track day:** [Sprint Racing](https://www.sprint-racing.be/) at Circuit de Mettet, Belgium
- **Hardware:** Race-Keeper "Instant Video" by Trivinci / IENSO Inc.

## License

MIT License — see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

This project is the result of independent reverse engineering. It is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or connected to Race-Keeper, Trivinci, IENSO Inc., or Sprint Racing.

Commit message:

Update docs, add tests, and contribution guidelines
- Fix README: correct author to @sam-dumont, remove unrelated credits
  (Sprint Racing, hardware vendor), clarify American brand origin,
  add OBD-2 limitation note and call for PRs with sample data
- Update LICENSE and rkd_parser.py author attribution
- Add CLAUDE.md with PR guidelines and project rules
- Add Makefile for standardized commands (install, test, lint, clean)
- Add pyproject.toml with pytest and coverage config (100% required)
- Add full test suite (77 tests) with 100% branch coverage

https://claude.ai/code/session_01PhN49eRBX67ZJoWyKon2Qq

README.md, after:

# Race-Keeper RKD Telemetry Extractor

**Extract GPS, accelerometer, and gyroscope data from Race-Keeper `.rkd` telemetry files.**

Race-Keeper "Instant Video" systems (by IENSO Inc., USA) record synchronized video and telemetry at professional track days and racing events. The telemetry is stored in proprietary `.rkd` binary files, readable only with the included Windows-only player.

This project provides:
- A **cross-platform Python parser** for `.rkd` files (no dependencies)
- Export to **[Telemetry Overlay](https://goprotelemetryextractor.com/) Custom CSV** (30 Hz)
- Export to **GPX 1.1** for track visualization
- The **first public documentation** of the RKD binary format

## Quick Start

```bash
# Parse a single file — exports CSV + GPX
python3 rkd_parser.py outing.rkd

# Print session info only (no export)
python3 rkd_parser.py outing.rkd --info

# Process all .rkd files on a USB stick
python3 rkd_parser.py --all-in /Volumes/RACEKEEPER/

# Export CSV only to a specific directory
python3 rkd_parser.py outing.rkd --no-gpx --output-dir ./exports/
```

**Requirements:** Python 3.9+ (no pip dependencies — stdlib only)

## What You Get

### Telemetry Overlay CSV (30 Hz)
A CSV file ready to load into [Telemetry Overlay](https://goprotelemetryextractor.com/) with:

| Channel | Rate | Source |
|---------|------|--------|
| GPS position (lat/lon) | 30 Hz (interpolated) | GPS receiver |
| Speed (m/s + km/h) | 30 Hz (interpolated) | GPS receiver |
| Altitude (m) | 30 Hz (interpolated) | GPS receiver |
| Heading (deg) | 30 Hz (interpolated) | GPS receiver |
| Vertical speed (ft/min) | 30 Hz (interpolated) | GPS receiver |
| Satellites, GPS fix | 5 Hz | GPS receiver |
| Accelerometer X/Y/Z (m/s²) | 30 Hz | IMU |
| Gyroscope X/Y/Z (deg/s) | 30 Hz | IMU |
| Pitch angle (deg) | 30 Hz | Computed from accelerometer |
| Bank/roll angle (deg) | 30 Hz | Computed from accelerometer |
| Turn rate (deg/s) | 30 Hz | Gyroscope Z axis |
| G-force longitudinal/lateral/total | 30 Hz | Computed from IMU |
| Braking indicator | 30 Hz | Computed from IMU |
| Cumulative distance (km) | 30 Hz | Computed from GPS |

The `utc (ms)` timestamp column enables **automatic sync** with video files in Telemetry Overlay.

### GPX Track File
A standard GPX 1.1 file at native GPS rate (~5 Hz) for:
- Viewing in Google Earth, GPXSee, Strava, etc.
- Verifying the track layout
- Sharing routes

### Session Summary

```
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
  RKD Session: outing.rkd
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
  File size:      474,563 bytes
  Car ID:         11098

  GPS data:
    Fixes:        1,457
    Duration:     289s (4.8 min)
    Max speed:    156.5 km/h (97.3 mph)
    Distance:     5.03 km (3.12 mi)
    Alt range:    249.9 – 263.7 m
    Satellites:   17 – 19

  IMU data:
    Frames:       8,681
    Accel Z (mean): 9.81 m/s² (expect ~9.81)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
```

## RKD Format Overview

The RKD binary format uses a **PNG-style magic signature** (`\x89RKD\r\n\x1a\n`) followed by a sequential stream of typed records with 10-byte headers:

| Record Type | Data | Rate |
|-------------|------|------|
| HEADER (1) | Config key-value pairs | Once |
| GPS (2) | Position, speed, altitude, heading | 5 Hz |
| ACCEL (7) | 3-axis accelerometer (milli-g) | 30 Hz |
| GYRO (12) | 3-axis gyroscope | 30 Hz |
| PERIODIC (6) | System metrics | ~1 Hz |
| TERMINATOR (0x8001) | Session end marker | Once |

See **[RKD_FORMAT_SPEC.md](RKD_FORMAT_SPEC.md)** for the complete binary format specification.

## Sample Data

The `samples/` directory contains:
- `sample_mettet.rkd` — A truncated RKD file (~50 GPS fixes from Circuit de Mettet)
- `sample_output.csv` — Example Telemetry Overlay CSV export
- `sample_output.gpx` — Example GPX track file

## Project Structure

```
├── rkd_parser.py         # Main parser tool (standalone, no deps)
├── tests/                # Test suite (100% coverage required)
│   └── test_rkd_parser.py
├── pyproject.toml        # Project config (pytest, coverage)
├── Makefile              # Standardized commands
├── CLAUDE.md             # Claude Code contribution guidelines
├── .github/workflows/
│   └── ci.yml            # CI/CD pipeline
├── RKD_FORMAT_SPEC.md    # Formal binary format specification
├── RESEARCH_NOTES.md     # Reverse-engineering narrative
├── SESSION_LOG.md        # Claude Code interaction log
├── LICENSE               # MIT license
└── samples/
    ├── README.md         # Sample data documentation
    ├── sample_mettet.rkd # Truncated RKD sample
    ├── sample_output.csv # Example CSV export
    └── sample_output.gpx # Example GPX export
```

## Background

This project was born out of frustration: a macOS user with Race-Keeper track day recordings and no way to use the telemetry data. The proprietary `.rkd` format had no public documentation, and the official tools only run on Windows.

The format was reverse-engineered in a single day using **Claude Code** as a collaborative analysis partner. The full narrative of the reverse-engineering process is documented in [RESEARCH_NOTES.md](RESEARCH_NOTES.md), and the Claude Code session transcripts are referenced in [SESSION_LOG.md](SESSION_LOG.md).

## For Telemetry Overlay Users

If you're here because you want to use Race-Keeper data with [Telemetry Overlay](https://goprotelemetryextractor.com/):

1. Copy your `outing.rkd` file from the USB stick
2. Run: `python3 rkd_parser.py outing.rkd`
3. Load the generated `.csv` into Telemetry Overlay as a "Custom CSV" data source
4. The UTC timestamps will auto-sync with your video

## For Developers

The format specification in [RKD_FORMAT_SPEC.md](RKD_FORMAT_SPEC.md) is designed to be implementor-friendly, with:
- Exact byte offsets and struct formats
- Unit conversion formulas with examples
- Validation checksums for testing
- Example hex dumps

The parser code (`rkd_parser.py`) serves as a reference implementation — it's deliberately written to be readable with extensive inline comments explaining each binary format detail.

## Limitations

- **No OBD-2 data support yet.** The RKD format likely supports OBD-2 telemetry (engine RPM, throttle position, etc.), but the recordings used for reverse-engineering did not contain any OBD-2 records. PRs with sample `.rkd` files that include OBD-2 data are very welcome — this would allow implementing support for those channels.

## Contributing

Found a Race-Keeper system with different record types or data structures? Contributions welcome:
- Open an issue with a hex dump of the first 256 bytes
- If possible, share a sample `.rkd` file (or the record type summary from `--info`)
- **Especially wanted:** `.rkd` files with OBD-2 data for testing and implementation

## Credits

- **Reverse engineering & implementation:** [@sam-dumont](https://github.com/sam-dumont)
- **AI-assisted analysis:** [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/claude-code) (Anthropic)

## License

MIT License — see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

This project is the result of independent reverse engineering. It is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or connected to Race-Keeper or IENSO Inc.
